---
title: Favourite music
date: 2025-04-15
---

Some of my favourite music. Written down in one place so I don't forget. I
haven't chosen a sorting mechanism yet so they will just be here in the order I
thought of them. I started writing these in the spring of 2025.

## Florence + the Machine - How Big, How Blue, How Beautiful

I keep returning to this one for the power and the spacious sounds. Highlights
are the first 6 songs, but the whole album is really good. I also really like
"Mother".

## Arcade Fire - The Suburbs

Best Arcade Fire album and one of the best albums ever. The way the songs weave
and interleave and reference each other, and the intelligence of the lyrics.
Favourite song is We Used to Wait.

## Ren - Hi Ren

Just a single, but it really struck me. Will follow up on him.

## Gorillaz - Demon Days

Loved this.

## andreas odbjerg - hjem fra fabrikken

Both "hjem fra fabrikken" and "i morgen er der ogs√• en dag" are amazing.

## Eddie Vedder - Into the Wild

Soundtrack to a wild movie. I especially like Guaranteed from this one.

## Kaizers Orchestra - Maestro

Love the mix of Balkan, percussion, and the Tom Waits like characters. I really
liked Dieter Meyers Inst. from this album.

## Anne Queffelec - Ravel (1998)

She plays the best Le Tombeau de Couperin, especially movements 1, 5 and 6. The
other stuff is also really good.

## Billie Eilish - WHEN WE ALL FALL ASLEEP, WHERE DO WE GO? (2019)

Billie is always amazing, but I still think this is her strongest work.
Highlights are "all the good girls go to hell", "when the party's over", "bury a
friend", and "i love you".

## Bon Iver - 22, A Million (2016)

It's so good. Otherworldly.

## Feist - Let It Die (2004)

Minimalism and emotion and beauty. One of my all time favourites. Her other
albums are also all great.

## Rage Against the Machine - Rage Against the Machine (1992)

When I need to shout and scream at the unfairness of the world, this is where I
most often go. Motherfucker.

## Banks - III (2019)

So many good ones on this one. Will follow what she does going forward.

## Vinnie Who - Midnight Special (2013)

Disco and electronic and suave. It's great. 39 is my favourite.

## Fleet Foxes - Helplessness Blues (2011)

The sound and the lyrics are both gorgeous. The song Hopelessness Blues is
probably my #1 song.

## Agnes Obel - Citizen of Glass (2016)

Experimental interesting, with the nordic minimalism touch and some amazing
melodies.

## Hymns from Nineveh - Hymns from Nineveh (2011)

There's a softness to the way he tells his stories and a deep humanity. And the
presentation is beautifully minimalist and inviting. There are both
shouting-from-the-top-of-the-mountain moments and moments where he's just crying
on the kitchen floor. Favourites are "So Mournful the Elegy, so Comforting the
Hymn", "Rage. Silence. Love.", and "Sister Sorrowsong".

## The 1975 - I like it when you sleep, for you are so beautiful yet so unaware of it (2016)

I just fell in love with the power of "Love Me" and the crazy sounds it uses.

## Radiohead - Kid A (2000)

Got this from a friend of mine with the highest recommendation. I was 13 at the
time. I had never heard anything like it. I'm still in love with "Everything in
its right place".

## Nothing but thieves - Nothing but thieves (2015)

Wake up call is amazing. Just drags you along.

## Muse - Absolution (2003)

There are only two songs on this album that I don't absolutely love. Such a
great listen. Muse's other albums are also amazing, I was fully on board with
everything they did for the first 5 albums - I can't say that about any other
band.

## Kalandra - The Line (2020)

Especially Borders and Brave New World. Breathy, dreamy, heavy, beautiful.

## First Aid Kit - The Lion's Roar (2012)

I love many of the songs on this. Emmylou, Blue, King of the world. They hit a
beautiful country vibe.
