---
title: Notes on society
date: 2018-06-29
---

To keep up with change, so it does not become obsolete. I think what I’m doing
is to search for a path from our society to a better one. Or I’m looking for
reasons for things, and why some things don’t make sense. The society should win
at survival in a host of different situations. Or maybe just in the current
situation. The needs here are much the same as that of species. With one notable
exception: society is able to change the world around it. So what the society
actually needs to do is: Be the best at survival in this situation, change the
world around you, so you are continuously the best. Change to meet the demands
of the world around you, so you are continuously the best. Create the best
offset for your society, so you can continue being the best.

To make sure that for each person doing the right thing is the easiest thing.

I assume that every person has it as a goal to be happy, that’s why I’m writing
so much about happiness. If every person has it as a personal goal to be happy,
increasing happiness must be one of the key goals of society. Or at least
enabling people to be happy - which might amount to the same thing... Increasing
happiness also means reducing fear. There is a contradiction between increasing
happiness and increasing effectiveness, because too much focus on increasing
effectiveness will make people stressed which will reduce happiness. I believe
increasing happiness also means allowing people to express their creativity
different ways. Increasing happiness also means teaching people how to be happy.
On happiness:
http://www.teenink.com/nonfiction/academic/article/825723/Is-Happiness-A-Worthwhile-Goal-For-Society
Very subjective article, but has some worthwhile thoughts and some interesting
article references. Tries to create a basis for what happiness is, and what its
effects are. Asks the question “is happiness a worthwhile goal for society?” but
doesn’t really consider it not to be. I don’t know what I think yet...

To make it easier for each person in the society to accomplish their individual
goals. - I think this is the most precise, I’ve been able to define it. To help
each person help other people to accomplish their goals.

What is a society? A collection of people, who have decided to help each other
achieve goals not possible to achieve singlehandedly. A collection of people who
help each other to their mutual benefit.

Key things: Help citizens reach their goals. Ensure the continuation of the
society. Focus on being effective, and improving the society.

My problem with Bitcoin is, that it functions without a state. I don’t believe
that liberalistic economics create growth. A free market is only a good thing,
if it is regulated.
