---
title: Personal cloud
date: 2025-05-20
---

I think service providers by default should store the data you upload to your
own personal cloud. This is a thing that's now possible, and wasn't 15 years
ago.

I think everyone should own a "drive" on the web that applications integrate
with. This is where you store your photos, your save games, your notes, your
bookmarks, your search history, your instant messages, your calendar, contacts,
emails, passwords, your data. Potentially even your tweets/comments/posts. If
some company wants to provide you with a service, you give them access to their
little corner of your data so you can sync through them, have AI recognize
people, store your professional photos in original resolution and optimized etc.

I've looked a little at what this would currently cost, and it's at about 60
USD/TB/month for google drive today. In aws/google cloud/ovh you could get as
low as 1 USD/TB/month if you never need to look at your data, but around 10-20
USD/TB/month is probably more realistic. But here, you pay GB by GB instead of
everything at once, and you could potentially yourself choose how to optimally
store your digital life.

There are more benefits. If everyone is responsible for their own data, someone
stealing data from some company would not get any personal data - there's no
LastPass to get every password in the world from.

And there's the potential for this to store the books, music, games and movies
you've bought too, so the money can go back to the artist again. You could
stream it directly from your personal cloud. And never have to worry about some
provider going bankrupt, because your data is just yours. But not initially.

Companies might also be able to use some version of this, but I'd like to start
with the private version first. For companies, things like contracts, customer
relations, accounting, etc would be relevant.

Things I'd like to store there:

photos, save games, notes, bookmarks, search history, instant messages,
calendar, contacts, emails, passwords, playlists, likes (albums, books, artists,
songs) your notes about them, code repositories?,

There are problems too though. Need to write about them too. Encryption is hard.
How will services get access to the data? Can I design an interface that covers
all the things I wrote above? How about search across data? But the great thing
is that these problems could be solved by companies who want to make money off
of this. Communication is hard. How do I communicate to non-techs the importance
of this? How do I make it easy to set up? How do I show the authorization? What
apps have what kinds of access to what data? Should people also have a database
for themselves, where apps can put data they need to join etc?

A company/product like CloudBerry Labs/MSP360 is already doing some of this,
with "bring your own storage" backup software that's pretty neat. It would be
relevant to get them to integrate with this.

I also want to create this (if it doesn't already exist?) open source and freely
usable, so someone can start a company that makes money off of this, but
developers can just run their own if they want.

"MySpace"...
