---
title: We should live in tribes
date: 2023-03-29
---

These are some thoughts I've been having for a long time. Why is it that most
people in industrialized countries choose to live 1-2 adults and 1-3 kids in a
single house? Why is it, that when our kids move away from home, we choose to
keep living alone, just two?

Yes, it's convenient. You get to choose what _you_ want. Nobody can get in the
way.

But also, you're always lonely. And always stressed. And you need to depend on
the state or some organization for things, you could easily do if you just had
more friends.

The superpower of the human race is the things that we are able to accomplish
_together_. Alone, a human is a little scary but also sad. Together, humans are
the most powerful force on the planet.

Why don't we choose to live together in tribes, where we eat and do all the
things of life together? Something like 40-200 humans of all ages. Old and
young. No more loneliness, always someone to play with, help with the cooking
when you can't manage it yourself, always someone to look after the kids.

Potentially, we could eliminate schools, kindergardens, daycare, elderly homes.
We would just need a handful of kitchens for each tribe. And each tribe would be
a force to be reckoned with. Able to take care of their own from birth to death.

Of course, you should not be forced to live in your tribe. But the benefits are
immense, so leaving would mean you don't get access to any of that.

Death and birth would not be something extremely rare. They would be things that
you know happen, and everybody has tried it many times.

I know, that for my kids, this would be much better. And I know that I would
love to enter into this kind of community.

A community of this size could also have a music room, a gaming room, a party
room. And they would only need a handful of each kind of tool, since they all
share them. Coming home would mean not just coming home to a single wife or
being alone, but to come home to a whole tribe of people. There's always someone
there. And if you need solitude, you can go for a walk or sit in a 'meditation
room'.

There are definitely problems with this that I am not seeing, but it really
seems to me like the benefits far outweigh any potential drawbacks. And it would
probably be a little less convenient than our lives today.

I want this.
